[birds chirping]
[stationmaster] Mr. Cuthbert?
Do you know where she's headed?
The orphanage.
[train whistling]
[bell ringing]
[indistinct conversations]
[stationmaster] Did she run away?
[Matthew] No.
How did she seem?
[stationmaster] Quiet.
Yes, she was real quiet.
Didn't say a word.
[horse nickers]
[man] Miss!
Miss!
Miss, Miss. Right this way, Miss.
Who are you?
-I'm supposed to fetch you, Miss.
-I don't understand. Who sent you?
Why, your family, of course.
Now right this way, little lady.
My family?
They sent me to collect you, and
bring you home. We'll be there in a jiff.
-Let go of me.
-Quickly now. Let's hurry up.
I've got some lovely sweets for the ride.
[shouts] Get away from me!
[clears throat] Uh...
Hello, young masters.
I've been sent to take you home.
[horse snorts]
Uh, good evening. Was wondering
if you could spare a fresh horse.
Sorry, sir. I don't have one to lend.
Mine's dead-beat,
and I need to get to Charlottetown.
Please! Any horse will do.
Sorry, but I can't oblige you, sir.
I am good for it.
I'll bring the money when I return.
-Sir--
-I live in Avonlea at Green Gables.
Money or not, I'm afraid I can't help you.
These belong to the guests,
and the hotel's are spoken for.
You're welcome to rest yours here, though.
[Matthew] Sam! Sam!
Sam! Sam!
Vessel?
Whoa. Matthew Cuthbert,
whatever's got you all twisted up?
Are you heading to the vessel?
Yes. We're riding to the port overnight.
Be there by daybreak.
Uh, can I hitch a ride?
I need to get to Charlottetown!
-I'm not riding him back.
-No worries at all!
Much obliged.
[Sam] Hyup!
[horse snorts]
[indistinct conversations]
[bell tolling]
[Marilla's words overlapping]
I told you that brooch... Confess at once!
-[Anne] But I didn't take it!
-[Marilla] Confess!
[Anne]
I took the brooch outside. I lost it.
-[Marilla] Tomorrow you will go.
-[Anne] But please, Miss Cuthbert!
[girl 1] Shut your face from now on!
We're sick of you
and your stupid stories!
-Hold her down.
-[Anne] Please! Don't!
[girl 2] Stupid stories!
[girl] Squeak, squeak, squeak.
Stop it!
[woman 1] Anne Shirley!
Stop it at once! Stop it!
You get in there!
[door slams, locks]
♪ First thing we'd climb a tree ♪
♪ And maybe then we'd talk ♪
♪ Or sit silently ♪
♪ And listen to our thoughts ♪
♪ With illusions of someday ♪
♪ Casting a golden light ♪
♪ No dress rehearsal ♪
♪ This is our life ♪
♪ You are ahead by a century ♪
-♪ This is our life ♪
-♪ You are ahead by a century ♪
[horse whinnies]
Oh, quickly now!
-[panting]
-Quick!
Quick!
Oh, easy, easy!
I'm sorry, Miss Cuthbert.
I was not quite finished!
Oh, please hurry!
Uh, continue with the barn work. Stack
some wood in the kitchen. I have to go!
[clicks tongue]
[mutters urgently]
Marilla!
-Marilla!
-I have to go!
Wait! Wait!
Wait.
Thomas rode out at first light.
I came to tell you.
Where is he going?
To look for them.
The only reason I could see for Matthew
tearing off yesterday was to fetch Anne.
-When they didn't return, I was worried.
-Please step aside, Rachel.
-I knew you'd be beside yourself.
-I need to go! I must go now!
No, listen, dear. Thomas will ride
all the way to the train station.
-He'll check the road as he goes.
-What if he's lying dead in a ditch?
-Marilla!
-What if they both are?
What if something horrible happened
and it's my fault?
Stop it, Marilla!
Boy!
Thomas is miles ahead of you.
Now, the only thing to do now is to wait.
-Take the rig back in.
-Yes, ma'am.
[horse nickering, snorting]
Give me your hand.
Watch your step. Carefully now. Careful.
All right. Now...
Come along inside.
We'll put the kettle on.
[Rachel exhales]
[birds chirping]
[rooster crows]
[horse whinnies]
[grunts]
[exhales]
-Hello, Mr. Avery.
-Oh, goodness!
[chuckles]
My word! D-D-Do I know you?
Not yet. But I know you. I'm sure we'll
become better acquainted on the ride.
The ride?
The matron was wondering if you wouldn't
mind taking me to the train station.
I'm going home to Halifax, you see.
That's where I was born.
Uh, I-I-I don't know if I can take you.
It seems a wealthy aunt
has just been discovered and sent for me.
Isn't that wonderful?
Yes, it is, but I-I-I've got
several deliveries to make--
My years of torment and uncertainty
are behind me.
And I'll have to learn all manner of
comportment, but I'm equal to the task.
-You're moving up in the world.
-I am.
I am, indeed. So if you wouldn't mind
conveying me towards my new life?
No, i-i-it's not that I mind, but trouble
is I've got several stops along the way.
It'll be a few hours, I'm afraid.
If you're in a hurry, you might find
a better mode. Shall we ask the matron?
No, no, no! No. This will be perfect.
And I'm sorry I don't have any money
to pay you, but I'll be happy to help.
[Anne exhales]
Well, uh...
Well, a-all right. All right.
Off we go. [chuckles]
[indistinct conversations]
[woman 1] Sack of potatoes!
[woman 2] Bags of oysters!
Bags of oysters!
I've got radishes!
-[bell tolling]
-[woman 2] Bring it over here!
[man] Fresh cod!
[Matthew] So, now what do you think?
I don't know how much I can get for it
with this here monogram.
Well, I... I don't need much.
Then we are well met.
-It's a family heirloom.
-Uh, show me something in here that ain't.
I don't know.
I'll think about it.
Why don't you come back tomorrow?
I mean, all I need is train fare
for two up island,
and ferry rides back and forth
to the mainland.
-Any idea how much that would come to?
-[sighs]
I'll see what I can do, all right?
[cash register bell pings]
[paperboy] Extra, extra!
Scientists predict greenhouse effect!
Extra, extra!
What time does the ferry
to Nova Scotia go?
Around about five o'clock.
Local boy loses life by drowning!
[bicycle bell ringing]
Move out of the way, mister!
[Matthew groans]
[screaming]
And I believe my parents traveled to India
and many faraway lands
before they were killed tragically
in service of the Queen.
You don't say!
I imagine they were ever so noble.
Easy, easy. Whoa!
All right. Off you go.
Going!
I'm told I'm fleet of foot.
Oh, yes?
Now, I'd rather be beautiful,
but you can't have everything.
[Mr. Avery chuckles]
All right.
-[grunts]
-Oh...
[exhales]
-Mmm. My missus sure can bake.
-[chuckles]
I was going to learn.
The lady at my last household in Avonlea
said she would teach me.
Oh.
Doesn't matter.
-[exhales deeply]
-Hungry?
No, no. I-I couldn't deprive you.
Oh, help yourself.
-Got plenty.
-Hmm.
Well...
Much obliged!
Walk on.
[horse snorts]
[Anne] I'm famished, actually.
I haven't eaten since yesterday.
-Matron trying to starve you?
-What?
They didn't feed you this morning?
Well, I was too preoccupied to eat.
-What with my life starting over and all.
-Uh-huh.
-What were they doing for her?
-Who?
Your parents. For the Queen.
Oh! Right! Espionage.
There. That's the best I can do
until the doctor comes.
It's been hours. I hope bringing him here
was the right thing to do.
-[Matthew] Anne.
-[woman 1] He's waking up!
[woman 2] Fetch him some water.
-Anne?
-[woman 1] You're gonna be fine.
[Matthew] What? Where?
[woman 1]
You had an accident. My carriage--
Oh, no, no, no. I can't be late.
-[woman 1] Don't get up. You're injured.
-No.
The ferry. I can't miss it!
Where am I?
Where's the ferry from here?
Hello?
Someone! Come on!
[shouts] Hello? Hello?
[exhales]
[exhales, pants]
[groans]
[sighs]
[whimpers]
[pants]
[rooster crows]
Oh, my word!
Oh, please! No, uh...
-D-D-Don't be frightened.
-Get away! You can't loiter here!
-I must speak with the matron.
-The matron? She's not even awake.
-It's an emergency.
-You'll have to come--
There's been a mistake!
My girl... My little girl, she's here.
And I came to fetch her.
Please.
Come inside.
I'll see if I can rouse the matron.
Thank you.
Were you out there all night?
[door closes]
-What happened anyways?
-Oh, there was a... a misunderstanding.
-Looks like it.
-What?
You've been fighting? And at your age!
-Men.
-Uh, kitchen's this way.
Dora, tell Matron there's an emergency.
Someone needs to see her right away.
I'll get hot water for washing up,
and we'll look at that bandage
before you see Matron.
No, no. There's no need.
Have you seen you?
Um, much obliged.
[rooster crows]
[clucks]
[cow moos]
Morning, Miss Cuthbert.
Do you need something?
For me?
Merci.
There's plenty more.
Thank you.
Yes? What is the nature of your emergency?
Yes, good morning.
I need to take Anne Shirley home.
She was adopted.
She's no longer in residence.
But she... No, no.
She came back here yesterday, did she not?
She did not. Now please excuse me!
But... but she has to be here.
The ferry master said that he'd seen her.
Said she... she came across yesterday.
Red braids?
Oh, I remember her distinctly,
but the girl is not here.
[tuts] Emergency!
Oh! [chuckles]
Gave me a start.
Beg your pardon.
Same thing happened yesterday.
Only that time, it was a little girl.
[bottles clinking]
[Anne] "Where hope and fear
maintain eternal strife!
And fleeting joy
does lasting doubt inspire,
and most we question
what we most desire!"
[coins clinking]
Thank you!
[announcer]
Ladies and gentlemen, the express
-is experiencing a short delay.
-[exhales]
-Please be patient.
-Excuse me.
May I interest you in a poetic recitation
spoken aloud with dignified emotion?
It's only a dollar.
50 cents?
I need a train fare to Halifax.
I promise you'll like it.
Excuse me, sir?
May I interest you in a rousing tale
of heroic deeds and acts of bravery?
It'll pass the time.
Pardon me.
May I transport you for a few minutes
with a romantical recitation replete
with the tragedy of a love unrequited?
[coins clinking]
"If thou must love me,
let it be for nought
except for love's sake only.
Do not say 'I love her'
for her smile, her look,
her way of speaking gently
for a trick of thought
that falls in well with mine,
and certes brought a sense
of pleasant ease on such a day..."
[Matthew] Anne!
"For these things in themselves
may be changed or change for thee,
and a love so wrought
may be unwrought..."
Anne... thank goodness I've found you.
[chuckles]
So Marilla must have found the brooch,
then, because I am not a thief.
If you'll please excuse me, I'm in
the middle of earning some wages.
I've got a train to catch.
"Thine love, dear, wiping my cheeks..."
Please... Anne!
"A creature might forget to..."
It was a terrible misunderstanding.
Thank you anyways. It was very nice.
But I'm not finished.
-We've heard quite enough.
-Yes.
-Do you want your money back?
-Anne, please!
Listen to me.
I've come to take you home.
To Green Gables.
Why? So you can banish me
whenever you feel like it?
I am my own family now,
and I am all I need!
-Anne, no!
-Poems!
-Poems for sale!
-Wait, wait! Anne! Listen.
I-I-I've come for you.
I came all this way.
Oh, bully for you!
Because so did I and not by choice.
I had to come all this way
because you didn't want me!
I do want you, Anne. We do.
I would appreciate it
if you would leave me alone.
Please.
-Please.
-Please?
Oh, I'll give you a please!
Please have the decency to let me be!
Is there a problem here?
[sniffles] Yes, there is.
Is this man bothering you?
No, no. Uh... We're fine.
This man is indeed bothering me.
-That so?
-We're fine. She's my daughter.
[sobs]
[sighs]
[sniffles]
[sobs]
[horse whinnies]
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
[Matthew grunts]
Well, it certainly took you long enough
to fetch her!
Oh, I'm sorry to...
cause you worry, Marilla.
Hello, Miss Cuthbert.
Hello, Anne.
It's nice to see you back.
Please take your things up to your room.
I'll get supper on.
[sighs]
[footsteps approaching]
[exhales, gasps]
[exhales]
We're having a simple supper. I won't need
your help. Come down when you're ready.
Yes, Miss Cuthbert.
I'll-I'll see you downstairs.
[cows mooing]
You'll be wanting the egg cups?
Yes, please.
Did you bring your laundry down?
[exhales] Yes, Miss Cuthbert.
Please attend to the toast.
Excuse me.
Of course.
On the table. Thank you.
I'll be out to...
walk the potato vines today.
I might send Jerry to the smithy
with the bay for shoes.
I'll pack him a lunch.
All right.
All right, then.
It was so awful, Belle.
When I saw the orphanage again,
you can't imagine my dread.
And now I'm back.
-But I'm not so sure.
-[Jerry] You're back?
How dare you sneak around
listening to my private conversation!
I wasn't listening. I was sleeping.
So you're lazy and a snoop.
It was too late to go home last night.
There was so much work because
Mr. Cuthbert was away looking for you.
What all did you hear me say?
Why would I care what you say to a horse?
I need coffee. I'm going in to ask.
-Why do you have that plate? Careful.
-I...
Or they'll call you a thief, too.
No, no, the lady brought it to me
yesterday when she was distraite.
Why anyone would worry over you
is a mystery for sure.
[panting and laughing]
[Diana] No!
[Diana laughs, exhales]
You're so smart, Anne.
I never would have thought
to sell poems for train fare.
And you're home
in time for the church picnic.
Did I tell you we're hosting it here?
I'm really glad you're back, Anne.
Well, you're the only one.
Well, Matthew seems to be,
but he must have talked her into it.
-[exhales]
-Don't say that, Anne.
I'm sure it's not true.
Oh, Miss Cuthbert wasn't happy to see me.
She didn't care a whit.
But Rachel Lynde told Mother that Miss
Cuthbert was torn asunder after you left.
Not possible.
Miss Cuthbert was so upset,
Rachel Lynde feared she'd take sick.
Not. Possible.
Well, that's what she told Mother.
Then why doesn't she show it?
It's hard to believe she was sorrowful
when she doesn't seem to like me at all.
At least you're home.
I've missed you.
[Anne sighs]
And I don't mean to seem ungrateful,
and it did fill my heart with joy
to be back at Green Gables!
[Diana chuckles]
[both exhaling deeply]
But I feel they could send me away
at any moment.
But now that it's all settled,
why would they?
I just don't want to get too attached.
Not if it's all gonna disappear.
[sighs]
Catch.
[both laughing]
"If all the world hated you,
and believed you wicked,
while your own conscience approved of you,
and absolved you from guilt,
you would not be without friends."
[exhales]
[sighs]
[indistinct conversations]
It's quite confounding.
Why send her away just to retrieve her?
Confounding, indeed. I hope those
old Cuthberts aren't losing their marbles.
What do you mean?
-Stop it!
-You stop it!
I mean, I hope they aren't becoming
addled, dear, as seniors are wont to do.
They hardly want to, darling.
I don't like this biscuit.
Then don't eat it.
Well, it can't be a peaceable household.
It simply can't.
The girl is an orphan after all.
How does one know what one is getting?
-One doesn't.
-Exactly.
It's not like she wanted to be an orphan.
Well, of course not, dear. But she is.
Uh, uh...
[Rachel] Hello!
[Matthew] Rachel. Thomas.
Here we are. Here we all are!
Glad to see you, Matthew.
Welcome home, Anne.
Thank you, Mrs. Lynde.
How do you do, Mr. Lynde?
Glad we didn't find you in a ditch.
Yes, yes, dear.
Everyone appreciates your gallantry.
Well, we aim to please.
[Rachel] Marilla, I hope
you're feeling better now, dear.
-[Matthew] Were you poorly, Marilla?
-She was just worried sick.
-[Marilla] All is well, thank you.
-[Rachel] I'm sure it is,
now that you're all reunited.
One big happy family.
[man] My, my.
Looks like the Cuthberts
have picked up a stray.
-A stray dog! [barks]
-[woman] No need to be uncharitable.
Do you suppose they mean for her
to be a daughter or a servant?
Doesn't she have awful red hair?
I wonder if she'll be attending school.
What is the world coming to?
[snickers] I hear they plucked her
from an asylum in Nova Scotia.
A lunatic asylum?
Orphanage.
But of course it could turn out
to be one and the same.
[woman] Oh, dear.
They will just have to... persevere.
[children] ♪ You're a little orphan
You lived in a trash can ♪
[boy] Garbage girl! Garbage girl!
[children laughing]
Anne!
I'll go.
[pants]
[Anne sobs]
Anne?
[sobs] Leave me alone.
Anne...
Did you feel a sense of obligation?
Is that it?
Because I would have been fine on my own!
Better than here!
Why would you send for me
if you didn't even want me?
But we do want you, Anne.
Well, it's obvious you don't!
I don't know what to do.
[Anne whimpers]
I have a question for you.
I wonder...
will you forgive me?
[sobs]
I am very sorry, Anne.
When the brooch went missing,
I was quick to judge.
But what's worse
is that I pushed you to fib.
What else were you to do?
Makes me shudder to think of it.
And of course I know now
that you were telling the truth.
You are a truthful girl, Anne, even now,
and that is an admirable quality.
[sighs]
This was my fault.
And all that you went through
because of it.
It's a wonder you came back
to Green Gables at all.
[Anne sniffles]
[sniffles]
[Marilla sighs]
[sighs]
If you could find it in your heart
to believe me...
and forgive me...
then we can start anew.
[seagulls squawking]
[Marilla] Anne!
[Anne] Yes, Miss Cuthbert?
Please come down to the parlor.
And "Marilla" is just fine.
What do you mean?
You may call me Marilla.
Oh.
May I call you Aunt Marilla?
You may not!
Oh, but I'd love to call you Aunt Marilla.
It would make me seem
as if I really belonged to you.
Well, I am not your aunt.
I don't believe in calling people names
that don't belong to them.
-Well, we could imagine you're my aunt.
-I couldn't.
Do you never imagine things
are different than they are?
I do not.
Oh, Marilla, how much you miss.
Well, speaking of names,
we'd like you to sign this and take ours.
If the idea appeals to you.
I've got the pen. It's all ready for you.
This is your family Bible.
You want me to be a Cuthbert?
A-A real Cuthbert?
We do.
We want our name to belong to you.
I'm going to belong?
[Marilla] We hope you like the sound
of Anne Shirley Cuthbert.
Anne?
I do. I-I do very much.
But...
I just sign? That's it?
Of course. What's the matter?
Well, it seems a little perfunctory,
don't you think?
Perfunctory?
Well, shouldn't we...?
Shouldn't we hold hands
over a running stream,
and-and pledge ourselves to each other
as Cuthberts forever?
Or prick our fingers and mingle our blood
as a symbol of our lasting devotion?
Well, surely there needs
to be a ceremony of-of some kind
in honor of an auspicious moment?
As someone who has never belonged
to anyone before,
I believe that this is a matter
of much solemnity.
Don't you?
What say you, Marilla?
Well, I've got some raspberry cordial
in the pantry.
Perhaps we could all have
a small glass to celebrate,
without any danger to anyone.
Oh, Miss Cuth...
Thank you, Marilla.
That would do nicely.
Well, then...
to the Cuthberts.
-The Cuthberts.
-And the Shirley-Cuthberts.
[glasses clink]
Oh...
I could develop a fondness for this.
It's time for you to sign now, Anne.
Uh...
[exhales]
Oh, my.
I can't believe this is really happening.
[sobs]
Calm yourself, Anne. You're overexcited.
Yes, I am.
I don't think I've ever been so excited
in my whole life.
[exhales, sniffles]
Oh, my hands are shaking.
[exhales deeply]
With this pen...
I take you,
Matthew and Marilla Cuthbert...
[chuckles]
...to be my family forever.
[inhales, exhales]
To call you mine and to be yours.
For always.
[Anne exhales deeply]
[sniffles]
[exhales]
Anne...
Cuthbert.
[sniffs]
Oh, I should add the Shirley.
I'll do it over.
Anne... Shirley... [chuckles]
Cuthbert.
[exhales]
It should be hyphenated, don't you agree?
I'll add that in, too,
and since it's official,
it should probably be
Anne Shirley-Cuthbert
of Green Gables née Halifax.
Anne!
Could I add Cordelia, too?
I've always wanted to be a Cordelia.
Anne... Cordelia...
All right. That's enough now.